[MUSIC]
>> Douglas: Write a from a function that
produces a generator that will produce
a series of values.
So, we're going to pass
a zero to the from function.
It will return a generator in
this case I'm calling it index.
Every time I call index,
it will return the next value in
the sequence that started
with the starting value.
>> Speaker 2: What's a generator?
>> Douglas: Generator is
a function that will make things.
So each time you call a generator,
you'll get another thing.
In this case,
where you were making a generator that's
gonna produce a sequences of
integers starting at some value.
Okay, so here is from,
from takes a start value it returns
a function which computes the next value
simply by taking the start it adds
one to start and then returns next.
So, who got something that works?
Okay, very good,
anybody take a different approach?
>> Speaker 2: I just read
that in your function.
I just did return X plus equals one
>> Douglas: Okay
>> Speaker 2: That work?
>> Douglas: Sure.
Anybody else?
>> Speaker 3: That will give
you a starting point different.
Then zero ought to be starting one.
>> Douglas: Yeah, he's right.
>> Speaker 2: You'll like this.
I did return start plus plus
>> Douglas: Yeah,
there's always one of those.
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas: Anybody else?
>> Speaker 4: You wanna
get start plus one?
>> Douglas: Yeah, start 1’s to be, if we
say from zero we need to start from zero.
>> Speaker 4: You need plus, plus 1.
But you return plus, plus start.
>> Douglas: We’re not doing that.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah,
I know you’re not doing that.
>> Douglas: Okay, ready to move on?
Okay here's the next one, write a to
function that takes a generator and
an end value and returns a generator that
will produce numbers up to that limit.
So, we'll pass to the to
function a generator that we
make with our from function.
So I will pass from 1 to 2 and
also pass it a 3, and
it will return a generator which will
return values up to the limit to 2 and
from that point on it will
return undefined instead.
>> Speaker 2: So on the previous limit,
this one does not include the limit?
[INAUDIBLE] times.
>> Douglas: Right, this is 2 a value
>> Speaker 2: Not including this one.
>> Douglas: Right.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Douglas: Well,
this is the convention we
have in our languages, right?
>> Speaker 4: That's true.
>> Douglas: When you're taking
a substrain of something?
This is the way we do it.
>> Speaker 4: Is this your reason Max?
>> Douglas: Yeah.
[SOUND] So,
here's one way to write the to function.
To takes a generator and an end value,
it returns a function that gets
the next value from the generator.
If that value is less than the end value,
it returns that value,
otherwise it returns undefined.
So, who got something that works?
Very good.
Anyone take a different approach or
do something amazing?
>> Douglas: Wonderful,
spectacular, anything like that.
>> Speaker 2: Amazing it is but mine
looks very similar to the limit function.
Just uses from generators inside of it.
So I set variable in the outer scope,
and then add a number to that and
if that number is less than or
equal to the limit a return find,
otherwise generator.
>> Douglas: Okay, anybody else?
All right, wanna do another one?
Yes, all right, let's do another one.
Okay, let's write a from to
function that produces a generator
that produces value in a range.
So we're going to pass to fromTo 0 and
3 and it will get us the generator
that gives us a sequence zero,
one, two and then undefined.
So here is fromto, fromto (start,
end) value in the returns
result of calling to passing
it from (start), end.
So, who got something that works?
Very good.
Who did it the hard way?
Yeah, first rule of
functional programming,
let the functions do the work.
Write an element function that
takes an array and a generator and
returns a generator that will
produce elements from the array.
So we're gonna pass to the element
factory, and array containing a,b,c and d.
And will give it a generator
which does from two one to three,
and that will give us a generator which
will produce b and c and then undefined.
So here's element,
element takes an array and a generator.
It returns a function that gets
the next index from the generator.
If the index is not undefined
it returns the next,
or the element of the array at that index.
So, who got something that works?
So, I want to talk about this
statement that's underlined.
Because if you leave that if out,
if we do the return unconditionally,
it does the same thing.
And the reason it does the same
thing is kind of weird.
So,
>> Douglas: If we don't have the if there,
and if index is undefined.
Then the brackets will turn
undefined into the string undefined.
It will then look for the member
undefined in the array and not find it,
and return undefined, which is what you
return if you can't find something.
So it kind of accidentally works, if you
leave that test out, except in the case
where if someone creates
an undefined property in the array.
Then they can cause the behavior of
this function to change in that case.
>> Speaker 2: So, you would to call
delete on a node in the array?
>> Douglas: No not deleting a node, if you
said array, what are calling the array?
Yeah, if we said array.undefined = five,
then in that case will return
five instead of undefined
which might not be what you want, and
so while most of the time it works.
I'm concerned about the weird cases
which are what actually screw you up in
production and at life.
And so, I would rather be explicit and
look for that case.
Anybody else do something different?
>> Speaker 2: This is continued
to be array, I mean, to the task.
>> Douglas: Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: Here it's
returned array gen.
>> Douglas: Mm-hm and yes-
>> Speaker 4: Cuz there's too much to
do that.
[LAUGH]
>> Douglas: Almost always work,
modify the element function so
that the generator argument is optional.
If the generator is not provided
then each of the elements of
the array will be provided.
So we can call element pass the array a,
b, c, and d, and
we will get a generator which will
return a, b, c, d and undefined.
So here is the revised element, all I did
was add the code that's in the yellow box.
If we didn't get past a generator,
then we'll call from too and
get a new generator,
otherwise everything else is the same.
So, who got something that works?
Did anybody try to do it the hard way?
First rule of functional programming.
Yeah, let functions do the work.
So, I want to talk about
the condition that I underlined.
There are three ways I
could have written that.
That's the first one where I'm looking for
explicitly, did undefined get passed in.
Which means did nothing get passed in.
Another way I could have written it is,
is the type of gen equal to function?
So if they passed in something but
it wasn't a function,
we'll make it a function.
So the difference between
those two approaches is
the second one will tend
to always succeed, and
the first one will tend to fail
if something bad was passed in.
And it depends on the characteristics
of your application generally,
fast failure is what you want because
it helps you discover bugs faster.
But sometimes you got code which is really
critical, and you wanna be sure that
no matter what happens this
code is gonna be working right.
The third way you could write that
condition would be to do a bullish check.
if not gen then do something and
I don't like that.
Because what we're trying to do in
making the condition is divide the whole
universe of possibilities into one of
two states that either is or it isn't.
And the bullish case splits it
in a really weird way in that,
if they pass in a one,
the behavior will be very,
very different than if
they passed in a zero.
And it doesn't make sense to me that one
in zero should behave that differently
when we're looking for a function.
So this is why I think that JavaScript
depending on boolish values and
conditions was a mistake,
I recommend always be more explicit.
Either figure out,
do I want the fast failure question or
do I want the will seem to
always succeed question, but
not the the convenient one which can
straddle both of those in unexpected ways.
Yeah.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Douglas: In that case,
that'll work fine too.
From we'll keep going forever but
we run into the end to find things so
it'll stop so from by itself is also okay.
Anybody else?
>> Speaker 4: [INAUDIBLE]
That when,
because you said
undefined, as opposed
to boole square.
>> Douglas: Right.
So, I used to recommend
using the logical OR
operator to do something
like you're suggesting.
To replace default values and
I've stopped recommending that
because it's too hazardous.
That if someone passes in a zero,
zero is falsely and so
it might get replaced in cases
we don't expect it will.
And that's problematic so
I now recommend instead be explicit
don't depend on boolish chucks.